Image Image endment Bill: India tables controversial 'anti-Muslim' law
9 December 2019
Share
Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
One analyst has called the bill the most 'consequential action' of the Modi government
India's government has tabled a bill in parliament which offers amnesty to non-Muslim illegal immigrants from three neighbouring countries.

The controversial bill seeks to provide citizenship to religious minorities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.

The government, led by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), says this will give sanctuary to people fleeing religious persecution.

Critics say the bill is part of a BJP agenda to marginalise Muslims.

The passage of the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) will be a test for the ruling party, which commands a majority in the lower house but is short of numbers in the upper house of parliament. A bill needs to be ratified by both houses to become a law.

The bill has already prompted widespread protests in the north-east of the country which borders Bangladesh, as people there feel that they will be "overrun" by immigrants from across the border.

What does the bill say?
The CAB amends the 64-year-old Indian Citizenship law, which currently prohibits illegal migrants from becoming Indian citizens.

It defines illegal immigrants as foreigners who enter India without a valid passport or travel documents, or stay beyond the permitted time. Illegal immigrants can be deported or jailed.

The new bill also amends a provision which says a person must have lived in India or worked for the federal government for at least 11 years before they can apply for citizenship.

Image caption
Hindu refugees from Pakistan in a refugee camp in Jammu
Now, there will be an exception for members of six religious minority communities - Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian - if they can prove that they are from Pakistan, Afghanistan or Bangladesh. They will only have to live or work in India for six years to be eligible for citizenship by naturalisation, the process by which a non-citizen acquires the citizenship or nationality of that country.

It also says people holding Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards - an immigration status permitting a foreign citizen of Indian origin to live and work in India indefinitely - can lose their status if they violate local laws for major and minor offences and violations.

Why is the bill controversial?
Opponents of the bill say it is exclusionary and violates the secular principles enshrined in the constitution. They say faith cannot be made a condition of citizenship.

The constitution prohibits religious discrimination against its citizens, and guarantees all persons equality before the law and equal protection of the law.

Delhi-based lawyer Gautam Bhatia says that by dividing alleged migrants into Muslims and non-Muslims, the bill "explicitly and blatantly, seeks to enshrine religious discrimination into law, contrary to our long-standing, secular constitutional ethos".

Historian Mukul Kesavan says the bill is "couched in the language of refuge and seemingly directed at foreigners, but its main purpose is the delegitimisation of Muslims citizenship".

Critics say that if it is genuinely aimed at protecting minorities, the bill should have have included Muslim religious minorities who have faced persecution in their own countries - Ahmadis in Pakistan and Rohingyas in Myanmar, for example. (The government has gone to the Supreme Court seeking deportation of Rohingya refugees from India.)

Defending the bill, senior BJP leader Ram Madhav said, "no country in the world accepts illegal migration".

"For all others about whom the bleeding hearts' are complaining, Indian citizenship laws are there. Naturalised citizenship is an option for others who legally claim Indian citizenship. All other illegal [immigrants] will be infiltrators," he added.

Also defending the bill earlier this year, R Jagannathan, editorial director of Swarajya magazine, wrote that "the exclusion of Muslims from the ambit of the Bill's coverage flows from the obvious reality that the three countries are Islamist ones, either as stated in their own constitutions, or because of the actions of militant Islamists, who target the minorities for conversion or harassment".

What is the history of the bill?
The Citizen Amendment Bill was first placed in parliament in July 2016.

The legislation cleared parliament's lower house where the BJP has a large majority, but it could not be enacted in the upper house, after violent anti-migrant protests in north eastern India.

The protests were particularly vocal in Assam state, which in August saw two million residents left off a citizens' register. Illegal migration from Bangladesh has long been a concern in the state.

The CAB is seen as being linked to the register, although it is not the same thing.

The National Register of Citizens (NRC) is a list of people who can prove they came to the state by 24 March 1971, a day before neighbouring Bangladesh became an independent country.

Image caption
The government says the National Register of Citizens is needed to identify illegal migrants
In the run-up to its publication, the BJP had supported the NRC, but changed tack days before the final list was published, saying it was error-ridden.

The reason for that was a lot of Bengali Hindus - a strong voter base for the BJP - were also left out of the list, and would possibly become illegal immigrants.

How is the citizens register linked to the bill?
The two are closely linked, because the Citizenship Amendment Bill will help protect non-Muslims who are excluded from the register and face the threat of deportation or internment.

This means tens of thousands of Bengali Hindu migrants who were not included in the NRC can still get citizenship to stay on in Assam state.

Later, Home Minister Amit Shah proposed a nationwide register of citizens to ensure that "each and every infiltrator is identified and expelled from India" by 2024.

Image caption
Right wing groups have protested against Rohingya refugees living in India
"If the government goes ahead with its plan of implementing the nationwide NRC, then those who find themselves excluded from it will be divided into two categories: (predominantly) Muslims, who will now be deemed illegal migrants, and all others, who would have been deemed illegal migrants, but are now immunised by the Citizenship Amendment Bill, if they can show that their country of origin is Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan," Mr Bhatia said.

Taken together, the NRC and CAB have the "potential of transforming India into a majoritarian polity with gradations of citizenship rights," said sociologist Niraja Gopal Jaya.

Related Topics
CitizenshipMuslimsIndiaAsia
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
What happens to India's four million 'stateless' people?
30 July 2018
Assam register: Four million risk losing India citizenship
30 July 2018
More Videos from the BBC
Moment baby girl's new hearing aids are turned on
Drought-hit Australian farmers rejoice in rain
Tunnels revealed after 50-year closure
Solar energy breakthrough and other news
'I stamped on attacker's wrist as hard as I could'
Fans have said to me 'go and hang yourself'
Recommended by Outbrain
Elsewhere on BBC
BBC.com
Eavesdropping on the wild animals of the South African savannah
BBC News
Stalker's return to university sparks petition
BBC News
Acid attack victim 'incredibly grateful for NHS'
Recommended by Outbrain
You Might Also Like
BBC Culture
The hidden guru behind TV’s biggest shows
BBC Culture
How vaginas are finally losing their stigma
BBC Culture
A cultural history of gaslighting
From Around the Web
K-pop deaths highlight South Korea's desperation for soft power
Nikkei Asian Review
Japan underground: Explore a vast 'temple,' lake or gold mine
Nikkei Asian Review
Japan: People Are Crazy About This Affordable Smartwatch
techgadgetdiscounts.com
Everyone In Japan Is Going Crazy Over This Cheap Wifi Booster
techdiscountdeals.com
Japan: Incredible Device to Melt Away Neck Pain
Next Tech
20 New Genius Gadgets That Will Make The Best Christmas Gifts This Year
Christmas Gifts GuidePromoted content by Outbrain
Top Stories
New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
About 50 visitors were near White Island volcano, with some walking inside the rim, when it erupted.

9 December 2019
Finnish minister, 34, to be world's youngest PM
9 December 2019
India tables controversial citizenship bill
9 December 2019
ADVERTISEMENT

Features
Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict
 
The 18th Century war which started a new battle
 
In pictures: Six months of anger in Hong Kong
 
VIDEO
Restoring the theme park abandoned for 20 years
 
Why Kenyan women are writing on the streets
 
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
 
Russia's athletes wait in fear of fresh world doping ban
 
VIDEO
'I tattoo eyebrows for cancer patients'
 
‘A common bug could have killed my baby’
Elsewhere on the BBC
Lyrics quiz
Have you been getting these songs wrong?

Full article Lyrics quiz
Feeling hot
What happens to your body in extreme heat?

Full article Feeling hot
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Advertise with us
Ad choices
Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.