

Delhi factory fire: More than 40 dead in India blaze
8 hours ago
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share

Media captionThe blaze broke out in a cramped corner of India's capital
A large fire has swept through a bag factory in the Indian capital Delhi, killing 43 workers, officials say.

The blaze broke out at the four-storey building in the city's congested old quarter early on Sunday morning.

At least 100 people were sleeping inside the factory, which mainly makes school bags, when the fire started. More than 60 have been rescued.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the fire "horrific" and sent his condolences.

A local fire chief told BBC Hindi the building did not have a proper fire licence and was operating illegally as a factory.

Local media reported that the owner of the factory, named as Rehan, had been arrested.

One firefighter, Rajesh Shukla, was hailed as a "hero" for saving 11 people - despite suffering injuries himself.

'Cries and shouts for help'
Delhi's firefighters received the first call about the fire at 05:22 local time on Sunday (23:52 GMT Saturday).

The fire began on the lower storeys, spreading rapidly to the third floor where workers were sleeping.

"We woke up with cries and shouts for help," said Ronak Khan, a 17-year-old living next door.

"I saw people trapped. We asked them to come to the rooftop so that we could rescue them but they were not able to come up."

The area where the factory is located - Azad Market - is a web of narrow alleyways, which made it difficult to reach the blaze.

Rescuers had to carry out victims on their shoulders one-by-one with firefighters cutting away window grills to access the building.

Hidden lives behind India's construction boom
The Mumbai fires people forgot about
Seventeen die in Delhi hotel fire
It is not clear what caused the blaze but an investigation has been ordered.

An initial probe and eyewitnesses suggested a short circuit may have been to blame.

Image caption
Grief-stricken Mohammad Haider was close to his brother
A brother's grief
By Anant Prakash, BBC Hindi, Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi

Mohammad Haider's brother Bablu worked in the factory.

Haider says he rushed there and was told: "Your brother has been saved."

"I was relieved and rescued three to four other people.

"But then I learned that my brother was actually inside. Afterwards, I found him lying in the mortuary."

Mohammad Haider is shaking. Two other men are trying to console him.

"I had never thought that my brother would be separated from me this way," he says.

"Bablu used to inform me about everything in his life, whatever he was up to.

"Even when the fire started, he called me and said, 'Brother, please save me'. But I could not save him."

Victims' relatives have been scrambling for information. One man told India's PTI agency his brother was inside.

"I got a call from his friend informing that he has been injured in the incident. I have no clue which hospital he has been taken to," he said.

Indian cities have often seen deadly fires, with poor planning and lax enforcement of safety regulations major factors.

Image copyrightREUTERS
Image caption
A cause for the blaze is yet to be determined
Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
Large crowds gathered nearby after the fire broke out
Indian politicians have been expressing their horror at the blaze.

"The fire in Delhi's Anaj Mandi on Rani Jhansi Road is extremely horrific," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.

"My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. Wishing the injured a quick recovery. Authorities are providing all possible assistance at the site of the tragedy."

Home Minister Amit Shah called it a "tragic loss of precious lives".

Related Topics
IndiaDelhiNew Delhi
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
Video India factory fire: Deadly blaze traps sleeping workers
8 December 2019
Three dead in India chemical factory fire
9 March 2018
Thirteen killed in India factory fire
11 November 2016
Karol Bagh: Seventeen die in Delhi hotel fire
12 February 2019
India
India tables controversial citizenship bill
9 December 2019
 From the sectionIndia
Full article India tables controversial citizenship bill
The 18th Century war which started a new battle
8 December 2019
 From the sectionIndia
Full article The 18th Century war which started a new battle
Woman set on fire on way to rape hearing dies
7 December 2019
 From the sectionIndia
Full article Woman set on fire on way to rape hearing dies
More Videos from the BBC
'My skin is too tight for my body'
New railway station 'to open in December'
Michelle Obama speaks out on white flight
101-year-old ship dislodged above Niagara Falls
Restored Spitfire pilots return from record trip
Giant king cobra caught in Thai sewer
Recommended by Outbrain
Elsewhere on BBC
BBC.com
Eavesdropping on the wild animals of the South African savannah
BBC News
China pork crisis prompts German sausage fears
BBC News
Boys admit threatening women who refused to kiss
Recommended by Outbrain
You Might Also Like
BBC Culture
Photos of a private world
BBC Travel
An Italian town built on 2,000 years of sea lore
BBC Future
Is it better to drink cow’s milk or a dairy-free alternative?
From Around the Web
Chinese 5G sparks gold rush for Japan's masters of materials
Nikkei Asian Review
K-pop deaths highlight South Korea's desperation for soft power
Nikkei Asian Review
Need Japan travel inspiration? See another side to Japan on TripAdvisor
Trip Advisor
Experience Cathay Pacific’s award-winning service for yourself
Book Now | Cathay Pacific
Cheap SmartWatch Everyone in Japan is Talking About
techgadgetdiscounts.com
Japan: People Are Using This Innovative Device For Their Neck Pain
Next TechPromoted content by Outbrain
Top Stories
New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
About 50 visitors were near White Island volcano, with some walking inside the rim, when it erupted.

1 hour ago
Finnish minister, 34, to be world's youngest PM
36 minutes ago
India tables controversial citizenship bill
2 hours ago
ADVERTISEMENT

Features
Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict
 
The 18th Century war which started a new battle
 
In pictures: Six months of anger in Hong Kong
 
VIDEO
Restoring the theme park abandoned for 20 years
 
Why Kenyan women are writing on the streets
 
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
 
Russia's athletes wait in fear of fresh world doping ban
 
VIDEO
'I tattoo eyebrows for cancer patients'
 
‘A common bug could have killed my baby’
Elsewhere on the BBC
Lyrics quiz
Have you been getting these songs wrong?

Full article Lyrics quiz
Feeling hot
What happens to your body in extreme heat?

Full article Feeling hot
Most Read
1
New Zealand volcano: At least five dead after White Island eruption
2
Finnish minister Sanna Marin, 34, to become world's youngest PM
3
Jacqueline Jossa wins I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!
4
General election 2019: Swinson answering BBC listener questions
5
'Perfect' Scotch whisky collection could be worth £8m
6
Sausage roll enthusiast LadBaby takes aim at second Christmas number one
7
Saudi Arabia ends gender segregation in restaurants
8
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
9
Newspaper headlines: 'Labour Brexit betrayal' and 'NHS waits cover up'
10
What unites us: 10 reasons why we're not a divided nation
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Advertise with us
Ad choices
Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
