
Science & Environment
Climate change: UN negotiators 'playing politics' amid global crisis
By Matt McGrath
Environment correspondent, Madrid
9 hours ago
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Related TopicsCOP25
Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
UN negotiators meeting in Madrid have been accused of "playing politics" while the climate crisis grows.

The talks - now in their final week - are bogged down in technical details as key countries seek to delay efforts to increase their pledges, observers say.

Ministers are due to arrive in the Spanish capital this week to try to secure an ambitious outcome.

US presidential hopeful Michael Bloomberg is due to attend, while Greta Thunberg will also address the meeting.


Media captionGreta Thunberg at UN climate change talks - one year apart
Up to half a million people took part in a march in Madrid in support of rapid climate action, but according to observers, negotiators haven't got the message.

"The problem is while hundreds of thousands of people are marching outside in Madrid, and school children are striking, countries are playing politics with the negotiations," said Mohammed Adow, director of Power Shift Africa, a climate and energy think tank based in Nairobi, who's an observer at these talks,

Greta: 'They try so desperately to silence us'
Climate summit told of nation's 'fight to death'
Critical year for climate change begins in Madrid
"We need ministers to arrive this week and make some real progress."

Image copyrightKIARA WORTH/IISD
Image caption
Negotiators huddle to try and find common ground
Inside the convention centre, the central question of increasing country pledges to cut their carbon has been pushed aside as negotiators resort to protecting national interests.

Back in 2015, everyone signed up to the Paris agreement and put new plans on the table that are due to run from 2020.

However the richer countries were supposed to undertake specific carbon cutting actions in the years between 2015 and 2020, which many haven't yet achieved.

Here in Madrid a group of countries including China, India and Saudi Arabia are pushing for these pre-2020 commitments be adhered to - even if it means achieving them post-2020.

Observers believe this is partly a negotiating tactic designed to put pressure on richer nations in any discussions about improving pledges in the period after 2020.

Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
Michael Bloomberg is expected to arrive at the talks this week
There is frustration that countries are focussing on trying to get advantages in the talks, instead of working together to increase ambition.

"The Paris agreement is clear: all countries agreed to deliver new climate targets by 2020, and as the recent UNEP emissions gap report made clear, the onus is on the top 10 polluters to deliver," said Laurence Tubiana, one of the key architects of the Paris agreement, now with the European Climate Foundation.

"I know leaders in Brussels, Delhi, Beijing, Tokyo and Ottawa care about global action, but we need them to deliver this week. We need their leadership to deliver on their Paris commitments."

As well as the pre-2020 question, the talks are stuck on two tricky, technical issues - one about the question of loss and damage, the other about carbon markets.

Article 6 of the Paris climate agreement deals with the trading of emissions reductions credits that might arise from a country beating its own pledges or from a public or private initiative that cut emissions, such as a renewable energy plant or the restoration of a forest.

Here in Madrid, as last year in Katowice, countries are struggling to agree the rules of how these markets would work.

A number of countries including Brazil want to carry over credits that were created under previous versions of this scheme.

The worry is that many of these historical credits are not real reductions.

If they are used by countries to meet part or all of their pledges they simply dilute real efforts to cut carbon.

The question of loss and damage sees developing countries looking for a new facility in the UN talks that would deal with the impacts of events like sea level rise or major storms that have a climate component.

They argue that the poorest are the ones feeling the impacts of a climate they didn't create.

Rich countries have long resisted the idea feeling they will be on the hook for billions of dollars for centuries to come.

Up to now these discussions have been led by civil servants, but the arrival of ministers will likely clarify if both can be resolved by political horse trading.

It's possible that a compromise could be arrived at that would see both issues resolved here. Or not!

Image copyrightKIARA WORTH/IISD
Image caption
Delegates from Easter Island arrive at the talks
While the interventions of Michael Bloomberg and Great Thunberg will likely gain headlines, there is still uncertainty over whether a final decision can be taken here that will be ambitious and set out a clear timeline for countries to get their pledges on the table ahead of COP26 in Glasgow in November 2020.

There is hope that a large number of countries will sign up to long term net-zero emissions targets, and if that happens it will be significant progress.

But many eyes here will be closely watching Brussels this week where the new EU commission is due to present a European Green Deal.

"What happens in Brussels will resonate in Madrid," said David Waskow from the World Resources Institute.

Follow Matt on Twitter @mattmcgrathbbc.

Related Topics
Paris climate agreementCOP25Schools' climate change protestsClimate changeIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Science & Environment
Polluting firms 'will be hit by climate policies'
9 December 2019
 From the sectionBusiness
Full article Polluting firms 'will be hit by climate policies'
Four tiger foetuses found in 'poacher' arrests
9 December 2019
 From the sectionAsia
Full article Four tiger foetuses found in 'poacher' arrests
Brian Cox: Why I've been exploring our scientific past
9 December 2019
 From the sectionScience & Environment
Full article Brian Cox: Why I've been exploring our scientific past
More Videos from the BBC
Saudi Aramco's eight decades of history
Solar energy breakthrough and other news
'A responsibility that does not end' - Merkel
Melania Trump booed on stage in Baltimore
Moment baby girl's new hearing aids are turned on
Anglers dangerously close to huge plug hole
Recommended by Outbrain
Elsewhere on BBC
BBC.com
Eavesdropping on the wild animals of the South African savannah
BBC News
Vicar resigns over affair with parishioner
BBC News
Fugitive ram-raider arrested in Thailand
Recommended by Outbrain
You Might Also Like
BBC Future
Why progress bars can make you feel better
BBC Culture
Photos of a private world
BBC Culture
Top 100 films directed by women: What is ‘misogynoir’?
From Around the Web
Japan underground: Explore a vast 'temple,' lake or gold mine
Nikkei Asian Review
SmartWatch Everyone in Japan is Talking About
techgadgetdiscounts.com
This Brilliant Device Lets You Communicate In More Than 40 Languages
Next Tech
Japan: People Are Using This Innovative Device For Their Neck Pain
Next Tech
Everyone In Japan Is Going Crazy Over This Cheap Wifi Booster
techdiscountdeals.com
Japan: New Powerful Smartwatch Everybody Is Talking About
Next TechPromoted content by Outbrain
Top Stories
New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
About 50 visitors were near White Island volcano, with some walking inside the rim, when it erupted.

1 hour ago
Finnish minister, 34, to be world's youngest PM
35 minutes ago
India tables controversial citizenship bill
2 hours ago
ADVERTISEMENT

Features
Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict

The 18th Century war which started a new battle

In pictures: Six months of anger in Hong Kong

VIDEO
Restoring the theme park abandoned for 20 years

Why Kenyan women are writing on the streets

'I slept in a cupboard for three months'

Russia's athletes wait in fear of fresh world doping ban

VIDEO
'I tattoo eyebrows for cancer patients'

‘A common bug could have killed my baby’
Elsewhere on the BBC
Lyrics quiz
Have you been getting these songs wrong?

Full article Lyrics quiz
Feeling hot
What happens to your body in extreme heat?

Full article Feeling hot
Most Read
1
New Zealand volcano: At least five dead after White Island eruption
2
Finnish minister Sanna Marin, 34, to become world's youngest PM
3
Jacqueline Jossa wins I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!
4
'Perfect' Scotch whisky collection could be worth £8m
5
Saudi Arabia ends gender segregation in restaurants
6
Sausage roll enthusiast LadBaby takes aim at second Christmas number one
7
General election 2019: Swinson answering BBC listener questions
8
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
9
Newspaper headlines: 'Labour Brexit betrayal' and 'NHS waits cover up'
10
What unites us: 10 reasons why we're not a divided nation
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Advertise with us
Ad choices
Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
