

Four tiger foetuses found in Indonesian 'poacher' arrests
6 hours ago
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
The skin of an adult tiger was found along with the foetuses
Five people in Indonesia have been arrested for poaching after authorities found the skin of a protected Sumatran tiger and four foetuses in a jar.

Sumatran tigers are critically endangered, with fewer than 400 believed to be left in the wild.

It's not clear if the foetuses were taken from the adult tiger whose skin was taken.

Tiger cubs are born blind and are totally dependent on their mother for the first few months of their lives.

An official from the Environment and Forestry Ministry said the suspects, from Riau province, were arrested after police received a tip-off.

Two suspects are believed to have been acting as sellers. They face a maximum of five years in prison and a fine of 100 million rupiah ($7100; £5403).

The Sunda subspecies of tiger was once found on the Indonesian islands of Java, Bali, and Sumatra. They are now found only on Sumatra.

According to the WWF: "Accelerating deforestation and rampant poaching mean this noble creature could end up extinct like its Javan and Balinese counterparts.

"In Indonesia, anyone caught hunting tigers could face jail time and steep fines.

"But despite increased efforts in tiger conservation - including strengthening law enforcement and anti-poaching capacity - a substantial market remains in Sumatra and other parts of Asia for tiger parts and products."

Half of tigers rescued from Thai temple have died
Hunting Thailand's farm tiger traffickers
According to wildlife trade monitoring network Traffic, poaching for trade is responsible for almost 80% of Sumatran tiger deaths - amounting to 40 deaths a year.

Some parts of the tiger, like the bones, are believed to have medicinal values in parts of Asia.

Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
Some parts of the tiger, like the bones, are believed to have medicinal value
Related Topics
WildlifePoachingIndonesiaTigersWorld Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF)
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
Thailand Tiger Temple: More than half have died since rescue
16 September 2019
Thailand tiger farms: Hunting the traffickers
19 November 2016
Video WWF: 'Loggers threat to rare tigers in Indonesia'
9 May 2011
Asia
New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
9 December 2019
 From the sectionAsia
Full article New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
India tables controversial citizenship bill
9 December 2019
 From the sectionIndia
Full article India tables controversial citizenship bill
Dozens dead in Delhi bag factory fire
9 December 2019
 From the sectionIndia
Full article Dozens dead in Delhi bag factory fire
More Videos from the BBC
'Success would be powerful legacy for Ollie'
One-minute World News
Twins 'scarred for life' by black henna tattoos
Trump denies heart attack behind hospital visit
Law professor rebukes Republican congressman
'When I heard I owed £1.2m, I thought it was a joke'
Recommended by Outbrain
Elsewhere on BBC
BBC.com
Eavesdropping on the wild animals of the South African savannah
BBC News
Boys admit threatening women who refused to kiss
BBC News
Mum 'kicked out of school for pregnancy' graduates
Recommended by Outbrain
You Might Also Like
BBC Culture
How vaginas are finally losing their stigma
BBC Culture
Will disabled people ever get the stories they deserve?
BBC Culture
Dezeen Day 2019: How can design save the world?
From Around the Web
Japan underground: Explore a vast 'temple,' lake or gold mine
Nikkei Asian Review
K-pop deaths highlight South Korea's desperation for soft power
Nikkei Asian Review
Cheap SmartWatch Everyone in Japan is Talking About
techgadgetdiscounts.com
Everyone In Japan Is Going Crazy Over This Cheap Wifi Booster
techdiscountdeals.com
Travelling to Japan? Discover TripAdvisor's Untold Stories of Japan before you go
Trip Advisor
Japan: People Are Using This Innovative Device For Their Neck Pain
Next TechPromoted content by Outbrain
Top Stories
New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
About 50 visitors were near White Island volcano, with some walking inside the rim, when it erupted.

1 hour ago
Finnish minister, 34, to be world's youngest PM
35 minutes ago
India tables controversial citizenship bill
2 hours ago
ADVERTISEMENT

Features
Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict
 
The 18th Century war which started a new battle
 
In pictures: Six months of anger in Hong Kong
 
VIDEO
Restoring the theme park abandoned for 20 years
 
Why Kenyan women are writing on the streets
 
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
 
Russia's athletes wait in fear of fresh world doping ban
 
VIDEO
'I tattoo eyebrows for cancer patients'
 
‘A common bug could have killed my baby’
Elsewhere on the BBC
Lyrics quiz
Have you been getting these songs wrong?

Full article Lyrics quiz
Feeling hot
What happens to your body in extreme heat?

Full article Feeling hot
Most Read
1
New Zealand volcano: At least five dead after White Island eruption
2
Finnish minister Sanna Marin, 34, to become world's youngest PM
3
Jacqueline Jossa wins I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!
4
'Perfect' Scotch whisky collection could be worth £8m
5
Saudi Arabia ends gender segregation in restaurants
6
Sausage roll enthusiast LadBaby takes aim at second Christmas number one
7
General election 2019: Swinson answering BBC listener questions
8
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
9
Newspaper headlines: 'Labour Brexit betrayal' and 'NHS waits cover up'
10
What unites us: 10 reasons why we're not a divided nation
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Advertise with us
Ad choices
Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
