
Finnish minister Sanna Marin, 34, to become world's youngest PM
36 minutes ago
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Image copyrightREUTERS
Image caption
Sanna Marin will become the world's youngest sitting PM
Sanna Marin is to become the world's youngest prime minister at the age of 34 - and will head a women-led coalition government in Finland.

The transportation minister was picked by her Social Democratic party to take charge after PM Antti Rinne quit. She is expected to be sworn in this week.

She will lead a centre-left coalition of five parties, all headed by women.

Mr Rinne stepped down after losing the confidence of a coalition member over his handling of a postal strike.

When she takes office, Ms Marin will be the world's youngest sitting prime minister. New Zealand PM Jacinda Ardern is 39, while Ukrainian premier Oleksiy Honcharuk is 35.

Women MPs say abuse forcing them from politics
What is Ms Marin's background?
Media reports say Sanna Marin was raised in a "rainbow family", living in a rented apartment with her mother and her mother's female partner. She told the Menaiset website (in Finnish) in 2015 that as a child she felt "invisible" because she was unable to talk openly about her family.

But she said her mother had always been supportive and made her believe she could do anything she wanted.

She was the first person in her family to go to university.

Ms Marin rose quickly through the ranks of the Social Democrats, heading the city administration in Tampere at the age of 27 and becoming an MP in 2015.

She has been transport and communications minister since June and has a 22-month-old daughter.

What direction is she likely to take?
There are unlikely to be any major policy changes, as the coalition agreed a programme when it took office.

However, Ms Marin, who won the leadership vote by a narrow margin, made it clear it would not be business as usual.

"We have a lot of work to do to rebuild trust," she told reporters.

She brushed away questions about her age, saying: "I have never thought about my age or gender. I think of the reasons I got into politics and those things for which we have won the trust of the electorate."

Skip Twitter post by @TNiskakangas
Finland’s government is now led by these five party leaders. #newgeneration pic.twitter.com/vis0qB9tO8

— Tuomas Niskakangas (@TNiskakangas) December 8, 2019
Report
End of Twitter post by @TNiskakangas
Ms Marin will be the third female prime minister in the Nordic country. The Social Democrats emerged as the largest party in elections held in April, and so can appoint the prime minister who leads the coalition government.

Mr Rinne stepped down after a plan to cut wages for hundreds of postal workers led to widespread strikes. Coalition member, the Centre Party, said it had lost confidence in him.

Meanwhile, the party said Katri Kulmuni would be named as finance minister. The 32-year-old took over as its leader in September.

Four of the five female party leaders in the coalition are under 35.

Finland currently holds the European Union's rotating presidency, and MPs are likely to approve the new government ahead of the EU summit in Brussels on 12 December.

You might also be interested in:

Media captionThe women fighting for Lapland
Related Topics
Finland
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
Women MPs say abuse forcing them from politics
31 October 2019
Video The women fighting for Lapland
23 June 2019
Europe
Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict
9 December 2019
 From the sectionEurope
Full article Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict
Russia awaits potential ban from global sport
9 December 2019
 From the sectionEurope
Full article Russia awaits potential ban from global sport
Negotiators 'playing politics' amid climate crisis
9 December 2019
 From the sectionScience & Environment
Full article Negotiators 'playing politics' amid climate crisis
More Videos from the BBC
I followed my father's advice and became a billionaire
Anglers dangerously close to huge plug hole
On board a non-stop flight from London to Sydney
'It is very definitely at risk at the moment'
Gove gives out Downing Street's phone number
Harry: 'William and I are on different paths'
Recommended by Outbrain
Elsewhere on BBC
BBC.com
Eavesdropping on the wild animals of the South African savannah
BBC News
Father-to-be died in hospital 'screaming in pain'
BBC News
Viking silver ingot declared treasure
Recommended by Outbrain
You Might Also Like
BBC Culture
How vaginas are finally losing their stigma
BBC Culture
Designer Roksanda Ilinčić: ‘How colours bring happiness’
BBC Culture
Why aren’t there more women film directors?
Top Stories
New Zealand volcano eruption kills at least five
About 50 visitors were near White Island volcano, with some walking inside the rim, when it erupted.

1 hour ago
Finnish minister, 34, to be world's youngest PM
36 minutes ago
India tables controversial citizenship bill
2 hours ago
Features
Long-awaited talks aim to end Ukraine conflict
 
The 18th Century war which started a new battle
 
In pictures: Six months of anger in Hong Kong
 
VIDEO
Restoring the theme park abandoned for 20 years
 
Why Kenyan women are writing on the streets
 
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
 
Russia's athletes wait in fear of fresh world doping ban
 
VIDEO
'I tattoo eyebrows for cancer patients'
 
‘A common bug could have killed my baby’
Elsewhere on the BBC
Lyrics quiz
Have you been getting these songs wrong?

Full article Lyrics quiz
Feeling hot
What happens to your body in extreme heat?

Full article Feeling hot
Most Read
1
New Zealand volcano: At least five dead after White Island eruption
2
Finnish minister Sanna Marin, 34, to become world's youngest PM
3
Jacqueline Jossa wins I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!
4
'Perfect' Scotch whisky collection could be worth £8m
5
Saudi Arabia ends gender segregation in restaurants
6
Sausage roll enthusiast LadBaby takes aim at second Christmas number one
7
General election 2019: Swinson answering BBC listener questions
8
'I slept in a cupboard for three months'
9
Newspaper headlines: 'Labour Brexit betrayal' and 'NHS waits cover up'
10
What unites us: 10 reasons why we're not a divided nation
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Advertise with us
Ad choices
Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.